docs/en/workshop/configuration/appwrite-configuration.md, before:

---
title: Console Configuration
---

<Documentation link="https://appwrite.io/docs/quick-starts/nextjs"></Documentation>

<Hero
title="Console Configuration 🛠️"
image="/assets/workshop/configuration/console/console_config.jpeg"
description="Welcome to the Configuration section of the Appwrite Console, an essential part of our journey.
Appwrite! 🧭 Here, we're going to get our Appwrite management tool ready to explore the vast universe before us
universe. These initial configurations will ensure a smooth and enjoyable experience throughout our adventure 🚀"
/>

## Initial Configuration ⚙️

To begin, let us guide you through the essential configurations for your Appwrite instance. In this section, we
will show you how to configure your instance. This will allow us to obtain the
necessary configuration information for the rest of our journey 🏝️

:::tip
**Note:** If you encounter issues, need additional assistance, or require more information, check out
the [Appwrite documentation](https://appwrite.io/docs/quick-starts) for helpful resources 📘
:::

## Step 1️⃣: Create Your Appwrite Account 👤

Firstly, you need to create an Appwrite account. To do this, you can go to
the Appwrite Console to create your account. You can also sign in with your
GitHub account if you prefer or use an existing account.

<Image src="/assets/workshop/configuration/console/console_signup.png" imageAlt="Onboarding screen Appwrite Cloud" withSpacing></Image>

<!-- ::: info
This Appwrite Cloud instance is free and will remain your property even after the end of this workshop 💪🏼
::: -->

## Step 2️⃣: Create Your First Project 🏗️

Once your account is created, you can create your first project. For example, you can name it `AppVenture` 📝

<Image src="/assets/workshop/configuration/console/console_project.png" imageAlt="Create project screen" withSpacing></Image>

## Step 3️⃣: Add a Web Platform to Your Project 🌐

After creating your project, you can see your empty instance because it is not yet linked to any platform!

<Image src="/assets/workshop/configuration/console/console_select_platform.png" imageAlt="Console select platform" withSpacing></Image>

Under **Add a platform**, add a **Web app**. This will allow us to link our web application to this Appwrite instance
later.

You can give your web application the name `AppVenture Web`, and for the hostname, you should enter `localhost` because
it is the domain name that your web application will use to communicate with the Appwrite APIs 📡

<Image src="/assets/workshop/configuration/console/console_add_platform.png" imageAlt="Console form add platform" withSpacing></Image>

For the following steps, you can skip them as we will cover them in the next section to allow us to link our web
application to our Appwrite instance 🤯

<Image src="/assets/workshop/configuration/console/console_end.png" imageAlt="Console screen" withSpacing></Image>


<InfoBonus title="Other Ways to Set Up an Appwrite Instance 📦">

## Self-Hosting and One-Click Setups 📝

Appwrite also offers other methods to obtain your own instance, depending on your preferences. **We won't cover these in
this workshop**, but you can explore them later in your future adventures with Appwrite.

### Self-Hosting 🏠

Appwrite was designed from the ground up with self-hosting in mind. You can install and run Appwrite on any operating
system capable of running a Docker CLI. Self-hosted Appwrite instances can be configured flexibly with access to the
same features found on the Gitpod instance or Appwrite Cloud.

The easiest way to start running your Appwrite server is by running our **Docker installer tool** from your terminal. Before
running the installation command, make sure you have Docker CLI installed on your host machine :

```shell
docker run -it --rm \
    --volume /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock \
    --volume "$(pwd)"/appwrite:/usr/src/code/appwrite:rw \
    --entrypoint="install" \
    appwrite/appwrite:1.4.3
```

📖 [Documentation - Self-Hosting](https://appwrite.io/docs/advanced/self-hosting)

### One-Click Setups 🖱️

In addition to running Appwrite locally, you can also launch Appwrite using a preconfigured setup. This allows you to
quickly get started with Appwrite without installing Docker on your local machine.

📖 [Documentation - One-Click Setups](https://appwrite.io/docs/advanced/self-hosting#one-click-setups)

</InfoBonus>

<br/>

---
<br/>

**It's time for an exciting adventure in the heart of the Appwrite world with the AppVenture by your side! Your ship is
still at the dock, waiting for you to link your application and your Appwrite instance for the grand departure 🌍**

<Image src="/assets/workshop/configuration/app/bay_app_boat.jpeg" imageAlt="Lexica image with a boat in a bay" withSpacing></Image>

Commit message:

🔗 Adding Appwrite cloud in InfoBonus

docs/en/workshop/configuration/appwrite-configuration.md, after:

---
title: Console Configuration
---

<Documentation link="https://appwrite.io/docs/quick-starts/nextjs"></Documentation>

<Hero
title="Console Configuration 🛠️"
image="/assets/workshop/configuration/console/console_config.jpeg"
description="Welcome to the Configuration section of the Appwrite Console, an essential part of our journey.
Appwrite! 🧭 Here, we're going to get our Appwrite management tool ready to explore the vast universe before us
universe. These initial configurations will ensure a smooth and enjoyable experience throughout our adventure 🚀"
/>

## Initial Configuration ⚙️

To begin, let us guide you through the essential configurations for your Appwrite instance. In this section, we
will show you how to configure your instance. This will allow us to obtain the
necessary configuration information for the rest of our journey 🏝️

:::tip
**Note:** If you encounter issues, need additional assistance, or require more information, check out
the [Appwrite documentation](https://appwrite.io/docs/quick-starts) for helpful resources 📘
:::

## Step 1️⃣: Create Your Appwrite Account 👤

Firstly, you need to create an Appwrite account. To do this, you can go to
the Appwrite Console to create your account. You can also sign in with your
GitHub account if you prefer or use an existing account.

<Image src="/assets/workshop/configuration/console/console_signup.png" imageAlt="Onboarding screen Appwrite Cloud" withSpacing></Image>

<!-- ::: info
This Appwrite Cloud instance is free and will remain your property even after the end of this workshop 💪🏼
::: -->

## Step 2️⃣: Create Your First Project 🏗️

Once your account is created, you can create your first project. For example, you can name it `AppVenture` 📝

<Image src="/assets/workshop/configuration/console/console_project.png" imageAlt="Create project screen" withSpacing></Image>

## Step 3️⃣: Add a Web Platform to Your Project 🌐

After creating your project, you can see your empty instance because it is not yet linked to any platform!

<Image src="/assets/workshop/configuration/console/console_select_platform.png" imageAlt="Console select platform" withSpacing></Image>

Under **Add a platform**, add a **Web app**. This will allow us to link our web application to this Appwrite instance
later.

You can give your web application the name `AppVenture Web`, and for the hostname, you should enter `localhost` because
it is the domain name that your web application will use to communicate with the Appwrite APIs 📡

<Image src="/assets/workshop/configuration/console/console_add_platform.png" imageAlt="Console form add platform" withSpacing></Image>

For the following steps, you can skip them as we will cover them in the next section to allow us to link our web
application to our Appwrite instance 🤯

<Image src="/assets/workshop/configuration/console/console_end.png" imageAlt="Console screen" withSpacing></Image>


<InfoBonus title="Other Ways to Set Up an Appwrite Instance 📦">

## Self-Hosting and One-Click Setups 📝

Appwrite also offers other methods to obtain your own instance, depending on your preferences. **We won't cover these in
this workshop**, but you can explore them later in your future adventures with Appwrite.

### Self-Hosting 🏠

Appwrite was designed from the ground up with self-hosting in mind. You can install and run Appwrite on any operating
system capable of running a Docker CLI. Self-hosted Appwrite instances can be configured flexibly with access to the
same features found on the Gitpod instance or Appwrite Cloud.

The easiest way to start running your Appwrite server is by running our **Docker installer tool** from your terminal. Before
running the installation command, make sure you have Docker CLI installed on your host machine :

```shell
docker run -it --rm \
    --volume /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock \
    --volume "$(pwd)"/appwrite:/usr/src/code/appwrite:rw \
    --entrypoint="install" \
    appwrite/appwrite:1.4.3
```

📖 [Documentation - Self-Hosting](https://appwrite.io/docs/advanced/self-hosting)

### One-Click Setups 🖱️

In addition to running Appwrite locally, you can also launch Appwrite using a preconfigured setup. This allows you to
quickly get started with Appwrite without installing Docker on your local machine.

📖 [Documentation - One-Click Setups](https://appwrite.io/docs/advanced/self-hosting#one-click-setups)

### Appwrite Cloud (BETA) 🌩️

Appwrite Cloud is a managed version of Appwrite that is hosted and maintained by the Appwrite team. Appwrite Cloud is
the easiest way to get started with Appwrite. It is free (with [limitations](https://appwrite.io/pricing)) to use and
will remain your property even after the end of this workshop. 

📖 [Documentation - Getting Started](https://cloud.appwrite.io/login)

</InfoBonus>

<br/>

---
<br/>

**It's time for an exciting adventure in the heart of the Appwrite world with the AppVenture by your side! Your ship is
still at the dock, waiting for you to link your application and your Appwrite instance for the grand departure 🌍**

<Image src="/assets/workshop/configuration/app/bay_app_boat.jpeg" imageAlt="Lexica image with a boat in a bay" withSpacing></Image>
